README.md, before:

# CPPND: Capstone Snake Game

Ideas:
different colored "food" causing different reactions: extra points, speed up, slow down, game over
extra credit: multi-player
extra credit: add "lives" to the game
extra credit: scoreboard - top scores

This project uses the Capstone project starter repo in the [Udacity C++ Nanodegree Program](https://www.udacity.com/course/c-plus-plus-nanodegree--nd213). The code for this repo was inspired by [this](https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/212296/snake-game-in-c-with-sdl) excellent StackOverflow post and set of responses.

<img src="snake_game.gif"/>

## Dependencies for Running Locally
* cmake >= 3.7
  * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1 (Linux, Mac), 3.81 (Windows)
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* SDL2 >= 2.0
  * All installation instructions can be found [here](https://wiki.libsdl.org/Installation)
  * Note that for Linux, an `apt` or `apt-get` installation is preferred to building from source.
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory in the top level directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./SnakeGame`.

Commit message:

feat: add gameplay functionality for diff food types
When the snake eats different types of food, different reactions occur:
Yellow: normal food
Orange: snake speeds up twice as much compared to yellow food
Purple: snake slows down
Green: extra points
Red: poison

README.md, after:

# CPPND: Capstone Snake Game

This project uses the Capstone project starter repo in the [Udacity C++ Nanodegree Program](https://www.udacity.com/course/c-plus-plus-nanodegree--nd213). The code for this repo was inspired by [this](https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/212296/snake-game-in-c-with-sdl) excellent StackOverflow post and set of responses.

This project adds gameplay functionality for different "food" types for the snake.

Yellow food is "regular" food. When eaten by the snake, the snake speeds up the snake slightly.
Orange food is "speedy" food. When eaten by the snake, the snake speeds up twice as much as it speeds up when it eats yellow food.
Purple food is "slow" food. When eaten by the snake, the snake slows down slightly.
Green food is "filling" food. When eaten by the snake, the user gets double points compared to when the snake eats other types of food.
Red food is "poison" and ends the game when the snake eats it.

Known bugs:
* Seg fault when removing from food vector
* "[xcb] Unknown sequence number while appending request
[xcb] Most likely this is a mult-threaded client and XInitThreads has not been called
..."
* Sometimes new food does not render, and the player does not have any actions to take


<img src="snake_game.gif"/>

## Dependencies for Running Locally
* cmake >= 3.7
  * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1 (Linux, Mac), 3.81 (Windows)
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* SDL2 >= 2.0
  * All installation instructions can be found [here](https://wiki.libsdl.org/Installation)
  * Note that for Linux, an `apt` or `apt-get` installation is preferred to building from source.
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory in the top level directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./SnakeGame`.
